---
layout: post
title:  "Who we are"
date:   2026-02-14 17:41:10 -0700
categories: blog update
---
The New Mexico Chapter of the Socialist Rifle Association is active and accepting new members. We are focused on mutual aid efforts, firearms handling and safety training, and working class empowerment, among myriad other interests and causes. Our membership extends across the entire state of New Mexico, and we hold events and gatherings in various locations throughout the year to meet and connect with one another.

We believe that, in the face of escalating fascism, economic inequity, and environmental damage, now more than ever, it is community and solidarity that keep us safe.

We keep us safe.

One of the existential threats to the working class is its disarmament, whether through onerous legislation or violent intimidation. We support the Second Amendment as a means of protecting other human rights. On an individual level, of course, exercising your right to gun ownership is a personal choice. We want to help educate and empower New Mexicans in that decision, whether for recreational or self-defense purposes.

An armed and informed populace is harder to oppress.

We are not a lobbying group, political action committee, paramilitary organization, militia, or sports team. We are a volunteer collective of nuevomexicanos, Natives, transplants, queers, POCs, allies, progressives, anarchists, communists, hobbyists, hunters, veterans, parents, teachers, and everything in between.

Join us! Reach out to newmexico@srachapters.org
